---
templateKey: blog-post
title: 'News: Illegal Garbage Dumping'
author: mini.asthana
type: post
date: 2009-02-15T12:00:14+00:00
url: /2009/02/15/news-illegal-garbage-dumping/
hs_sidebar_layout:
  - right_sidebar
categories:
  - Work

---
#### A serious threat to the city

Notwithstanding the recent warning by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) against dumping of garbage and untreated sewage in the Pallikaranai marshlands, the illegal dumping and burning of garbage by the corporation is a clear and omniscient threat to the residents of the vicinity.

What will it take to get them to stop this reckless destruction of ecological balance? We will have to wait and watch, because if there is one thing we cannot expect, it is proactive action from the government. So this story is yet another step to provoke the government to WAKE UP and look at the reality of our SINGARA CHENNAI…

#### Script

<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tr>
    <th>
      Video
    </th>
    
    <th>
      Audio
    </th>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      Reporter to Camera
    </td>
    
    <td>
      In spite of the warning given by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) against dumping of garbage and untreated sewage in Perungudi marshlands, the practice continues and continues and continues.
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      Video of Perungudi dump yard
    </td>
    
    <td>
      About 1,500 tonnes of the 3,500 tonnes of garbage generated by Chennai ends up in the Perungudi dump every day.
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      Video of Environmentalist speaking
    </td>
    
    <td>
      SOUND BYTE: Environmentalist
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>
      Video of Pallikaranai dump yard.
    </td>
    
    <td>
      VOICE OVER: Tambaram, Pallikaranai and Alandur &#8211; the three towns generate about 300 tonnes of garbage daily and the absence of proper disposal sites has hampered conservancy operations.</p> 
      
      <p>
        Despite years of different agencies pointing out the ecological devastation taking place at the Pallikaranai marsh due to the dumping of garbage into it by the Chennai Corporation, the government has done nothing to stop it<br /> t</td> </tr> 
        
        <tr>
          <td>
            Video of rag pickers in these dump yards
          </td>
          
          <td>
            VOICE OVER: Nearly 7,000 rag pickers visit everyday in these polluted areas and are exposed to the dump&#8217;s poisons.</p> 
            
            <p>
              Garbage dumping in the Perungudi &#8211; Pallikaranai marshland has also harmed the ecology of the wetland and burning of wastes has polluted the air.</td> </tr> 
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  Video of public or a resident of Perungudi/ Pallikarani area speaking about their views.
                </td>
                
                <td>
                  SOUND BYTE: Resident of those areas
                </td>
              </tr>
              
              <tr>
                <td>
                  Reporter to Camera
                </td>
                
                <td>
                  Introducing segregation of garbage into biodegradable and bio non-degradable components and compost the biodegradable waste would reduce the quantity of garbage reaching the dumping grounds.</p> 
                  
                  <p>
                    What will it take to get them to stop this reckless destruction of our natural heritage and ecological balance? We will have to wait and watch, because if there is one thing we cannot expect, it is proactive action from the government.</td> </tr> </tbody> </table>